# Plateit API

!> This documentation is a work-in-progress. It is **incomplete** but covers the [typical use case](/fundamentals/suggested-integration.md).

Plateit is a pragmatic, REST-like API that handles the creation and fulfilment of UK number plates ordered online.

To use Plateit, your application will need to generate the final print files, which are then submitted to Plateit for processing. For convenience and maximum compatibility, we offer [our own number plate image generator](https://numberplates.github.io/plateit-generator-docs), which you can use to create the previews and print files. Alternatively, you can develop your own custom solution, providing it adheres to some [simple rules](/fundamentals/plate-files.md).

## Start Here

To interact with this API you will need a [CompanyAccessToken](/objects/company-access-token.md). This can be generated by a user with administrator privileges by logging into [admin.plateit.co.uk](https://admin.plateit.co.uk) and navigating to *Settings -> API Keys*.

Different permissions can be applied to each token generated. However, for a typical use case, the default permissions should suffice. The default permissions will allow your application to fetch the available [CompanyPlate](/objects/company-plate.md), [CompanyProduct](/objects/company-product.md) and [CompanyShippingOption](/objects/company-shipping-option.md) objects, create entire orders using the [BuildOrder](/helpers/build-order.md) helper endpoint and later edit their contents if required.

The API token must be included in the `Authorization` header as a `Bearer` token.  For example:

```bash
curl -X GET "https://data.plateit.co.uk/v3/plates" \
-H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN_HERE" \
-H "Accept: application/json"
```

> When making requests to the API, always include the `Accept` header as shown above to specify the expected response format.

This is the [suggested integration guide](/fundamentals/suggested-integration.md).

## Road Map

The following functionality has been identified for future development:

- [ ] Reports
- [ ] Royal Mail API integration