# Introduction

The Plateit API follows many standard API conventions, making it easy to understand and use. It supports a variety of operations that allow you to manage resources effectively.

## Methods

The API uses the following HTTP methods to perform operations on resources:

* `GET`: Retrieves a resource or a collection of resource objects.
* `POST`: Creates a new resource (also used by some helper endpoints when no other methods are appropriate).
* `PATCH`: Updates an existing resource.
* `DELETE`: Deletes a resource.

## Errors

The API employs standard HTTP error response codes to communicate issues that may arise during requests (`400`, `401`, `404`, etc). When an error occurs, the response will include an accompanying `message` string that provides additional context about the error.

## Authentication

To interact with this API you will need a [CompanyAccessToken](/objects/company-access-token.md). This can be generated by a user with administrator privileges by logging into [admin.plateit.co.uk](https://admin.plateit.co.uk) and navigating to *Settings → API Tokens*.

Different permissions ([SystemUserPermission](/objects/system-user-permission.md)) can be applied to each token generated. However, for a typical use case, the default permissions should suffice. The default permissions will allow your application to fetch the available [CompanyPlate](/objects/company-plate.md), [CompanyProduct](/objects/company-product.md) and [CompanyShippingOption](/objects/company-shipping-option.md) objects, create entire orders using the [BuildOrder](/helpers/build-order.md) helper endpoint and later edit their contents if required.

The API token must be included in the `Authorization` header as a `Bearer` token.  For example:

```bash
curl -X GET "https://api.plateit.co.uk/v3/plates" \
-H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN_HERE" \
-H "Accept: application/json"
```

> When making requests to the API, always include the `Accept` header as shown above to specify the expected response format.